DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development

## Running in development mode

To run application in development mode you need to run `npm run dev` command.
It will start application with `nodemon` and restart it on any changes in source code.

You can try to build and run it in local Docker (see `postgres.yml`):
```
version: "3.2"
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: pass
    ports:
      - 127.0.0.1:5432:5432
    volumes:
      - ./database:/var/lib/postgresql/data
```

To run it execute: `docker compose -f postgres.yml up -d` where `-d` is used for background run.
If you have outdated version of docker, try use `docker-compose` instead of `docker compose` (https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

## Configuration

Default application configuration is stored in `app-config.yaml` file.
To override default configuration you can create `app-config.local.yaml` file and override any configuration value.

## Logging

We use `pino` library for logging.
You can find configuration for logging behavior in `app-config.yaml` file in `logging` section.
You can configure log level for each module separately.

Commit message:

separate docker db setup and docker app build

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development

## Setup local database

You can install PostgreSQL local https://www.postgresql.org/download/ or use Docker (see `postgres.yml`):
```
version: "3.2"
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: pass
    ports:
      - 127.0.0.1:5432:5432
    volumes:
      - ./database:/var/lib/postgresql/data
```

To run it execute: `docker compose -f postgres.yml up -d` where `-d` is used for background run.
If you have outdated version of docker, try use `docker-compose` instead of `docker compose` (https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

## Running application in development mode

To run application in development mode you need to run `npm run dev` command.
It will start application with `nodemon` and restart it on any changes in source code.

You can try to build and run it in local Docker:
```
version: "3.2"
services:
  api:
    build:
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
      context: .
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:3000:3000"
```

## Configuration

Default application configuration is stored in `app-config.yaml` file.
To override default configuration you can create `app-config.local.yaml` file and override any configuration value.

## Logging

We use `pino` library for logging.
You can find configuration for logging behavior in `app-config.yaml` file in `logging` section.
You can configure log level for each module separately.
